Technological Bias report


The majority of drones are controlled via wireless controller or through a smartphone. How these controllers work is done through radio waves, with the drone’s transmitter to send and a receiver to get those messages. This form of wireless communication is found within the RF segment of the electromagnetic spectrum. Both the transmitter and the receiver need to be on the same frequency in order to function. For the controllers, the majorities of drone companies use 900 MHz for their transmitters. With other drones such as those from DJI, use higher frequencies around 2.4 GHz are used for Wifi capabilities. DJI recently came out with an extra small drone that can “Fits into the palm of your hand” and can be controlled with hand gestures. This is one of the first drones sold on the mass market that have non-remote controlled capabilities.  DJI is one of the leading drone companies in the world and takes the lead for drone innovations. Learning to fly a quadcopter is an intensive and difficult process. Those who are video game lovers have an advantage when it comes to toggling the controller. The controller requires the user to hold the device in both hands, with the thumbs toggling the roll, pitch, yaw, and throttle functions. These functions are extremely delicate and one wrong move can lead the drone into a tree or crashing to the ground. That saying, it takes an extremely steady and well practiced hand in order to properly operate a drone. However, those who suffer with hand tremors from neurological problems or from another underlying cause will have huge issues with controlling drones. Especially after suffering from a stroke, movement disorders can inhibit a person’s ability to delicately toggle the controls. Many smartphone companies have created functions that have voice to text capabilities as well as increasing screen sensitivity. Drone companies can also assimilate that smart phone companies are doing and create a speech controlled drone that’d allow those with disabilities to control their drones.   
https://www.news-medical.net/health/Tremors-Following-Stroke.aspx
https://uavcoach.com/how-to-fly-a-quadcopter-guide/#Controls
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-south-asia-10713898
